Unix(Linux) commands
--------------------

Unix commands basically case sensitive commands, so we should go for the command as it is.

1.sudo su - root   --   Change as root user Sudo stands for either "substitute user do" or "super user do" 
			and it allows you to temporarily elevate your current user account to have root privileges.

2.whoami	   --	The whoami command allows Linux users to see the currently logged-in user.

3.exit		   --  	To exit from the user and terminal.

4.logout	   --   The logout command is a Linux/UNIX shell command that performs the task of logging out the 
			logged-in user from the system in that session, programmatically.

5.clear		   --	Clear is a standard Unix computer operating system command that is used to clear the terminal screen.

6.mkdir		   -- 	To create a new directory with giving name of the directory.

7.ls		   -- 	The ls command is one of the most commonly used,The command is used in listing contents inside a directory.

8.cd		   --	Cd command in linux known as change directory command. It is used to change current working directory. 
			In the above example, we have checked number of directories in our home directory and moved inside the 
			Documents directory by using cd Documents command.

9.Touch		   --	Touch command is a Linux command is mainly used to create empty files.

10.cat		   -- 	Cat(concatenate) command is very frequently used in Linux. It reads data from the file and gives their content as output.

11.vi		   -- 	Creates a new file if it already not exist, otherwise opens existing file.

12.vi -R	   --	Opens an existing file in read only mode.

13.cd ..	   -- 	It will shifting back one directory.

14.cd ../../	   --  	It will shifting back two directory.

15.cd		   -- 	Root home path

16.pwd		   --	The pwd command writes to standard output the full path name of your current directory (from the root directory).

17.rm	    	   --   The rm command removes the entries for a specified file, group of files, or certain select files from a list within a directory.

18.rm -f	   --	It means a file or directory will be deleted anyhow even 
			if it has read-only permission. To delete a file forcefully,	
19.rm.rf	   --	Linux rm -rf command deletes directory forcefully.

20.rmdir	   -- 	The rmdir command removes the directory, specified by the Directory parameter, from the system. 
			The directory must be empty before you can remove it.
21.cp		   --	You use the cp command for copying files from one location to another. This command can also copy directories (folders). 
			[file/directory-sources] specifies the sources of the files or directories you want to copy.
22.mv		   --	Use the mv command to move files and directories from one directory to another or to rename a file or directory. 
			If you move a file or directory to a new directory without specifying a new name, it retains its original name.
23.vi		   --   Esc  -- escape mode
			i    -- insert mode
			:    -- command mode
			:w    -- save file
			:q    -- quit file
			:wq   -- save & quit
			:wq!  -- save & quit forcefully
			:$    -- brining the cursor to the last line of the file
			:set number  --  A column of sequential line numbers will then appear at the left side of the screen.
			:set nonumber  -- A column of sequential line numbers will then disappear at the left side of the screen.
			:5 (ex)  --  brining the cursor to the 5th line of the file.
			:/data (ex)  --  search and find the particular word.
			:%s/aim/new (ex)  --  This command will search and replace the aim to new.
			dd    --  will delete the entire row of the cursor appear.
			5d (ex)  -- this command will delete 6 row in file from cursor appear.
			x   --  Delete a character in a row from cursor appear.
			2x  --  delete 2 character in a row from cursor appear.
24.uname	   --	uname is a command-line utility that prints basic information about the operating system name and system hardware.

25.uptime	   --	uptime gives a one line display of the following information. The current time, how long the system has been running, 
			how many users are currently logged on, and the system load averages for the past 1, 5, and 15 minutes. 
26.ls-l / ls -lrt 
   ls -ltr  	   -- 	The command is used in listing contents and files inside a directory .

27.ls -la / ls -lrta -- The command is used in listing hidden contents and files inside a directory.

28.chmod	   --	The command chmod -R 777 / makes every single file on the system under / (root) have rwxrwxrwx permissions. 
			This is equivalent to allowing ALL users read/write/execute permissions.
29.free -m	   --   The command will show the memory deatils in Mb and Kb.
   free -k         
30.sar		   --	sar: System Activity Report. It can be used to monitor Linux system's resources like CPU usage, Memory utilization,
		  	I/O devices consumption, Network monitoring, Disk usage, process and thread allocation, battery performance,
			Plug and play devices, Processor performance, file system and more.
31.ps -ef 	   -- 	The command shows the details of running processor.

32.ps -ef | grep   -- 	This command list all the process and because it uses -e and -fit also prints the full command which is 
			used to start the process. This means if it's a java process then the java command will be present in the 
			output and that's what we are searching for using the grep command. $ ps -ef | grep java.
33.du -sh	   --	du -sh (filename) The command shows the file size.

34.df -h	   --	The df command displays information about total space and available space on a file system.

35.gzip		   --	This command used for compress a required file.

36.gunzip	   --	This command used for uncompress a required file.

37.zip / unzip     --   This command used for zip and unzip the required file.

38.tar -xvzf 	   --   This command used for untar the required file.

39.history	   --   history command is used to view the previously executed command.

-------------/-------------/---------------/---------------/----------------/-----------------/----------------/--------------
	 
